# *Terminology*

# `Asset`
An asset is a source file used to generate a resource. These files are usually binary and created 
or exported by third-party tools like Photoshop, Maya, etc. 
They are designed to be easily readable by many tools, not for performance or real-time use. 
These files are checked into source control.

## Types of Assets:
* Images
    * png
    * tga
    * etc.
* Meshes
    * fbx
    * obj
    * etc.
* Fonts 
    * ttf
    * etc.
* etc.

# `Resource`
A resource is a file that has been processed by a resource compiler. 
These files are optimized for real-time performance and fast loading. 
They are specific to an engine and platform and are not checked into source control 
because they can be regenerated by recompiling the assets.

## Types of Resources
* Static Meshes
* Textures
* Character Animations
* etc.

# `Resource Compiler`
Resource compilers are command-line tools that take assets as input and generate resources as output. 
They have specific expectations such as command-line parameters and folder organization. 
These expectations are defined by a common set of files provided by a resource pipeline.

## Reasons for Using Command-Line Tools

### Simplicity
* Fewer combinations of third-party libraries required
* Easier to test and maintain with a smaller, focused codebase
* Clearer division of responsibilities
* Multicore and overnetwork work simplicity

### Stability
* Multiple processes reduce the risk of crashing the editor, preventing data loss
* Provides more ways to generate resources, useful for updating resource versions

## Examples of Resource Compilers
* Mesh Compiler
* Font Compiler
* Texture Compiler
* etc.

# `Descriptors`
Descriptors, also known as meta files, are used by compilers to determine what actions they should take. 
There is one descriptor per resource type. The descriptors use the concept of properties similarly
to an entity component system. These propertise are serialize using a text file which allows the user to debug any issues.

# `Virtual Resource`

A virtual resource is a resource that was generated by one the the resource compilers stead of a user. 
Which means that this resource does not exist until the parent resource is comopiled. 
An example of this could be the font compiler. This compiler may generated a texture asset which
later will be compile by the texture compiler. 
This allows any compiler to use the entire resource pipeline as well to do their job.

# `Resource Dependency`
A resource may depend on other resources. For instance a material instance may depend in texture resource 
and material resources. These dependencies are track by the system.

## Usage of dependencies
* Know which resources it needs to compile first
* Allows to know which resources are going to end up in the file product.
* Allows to know which resource could be out of date.

There are two kinds of dependencies.
a. No build order dependencies
a. Dependencies that are required to be compiled first.

# `Log files`
When a resource is compiled there may be some log information which it could be used full.
Such Error, Warnings, Speed of compilation, or any other detailed...

# `Asset Editor / Manager`
Assets only exist in the editor side of thing. It is up to the editor to manager things like
descriptors and to compile the assets into resources.

# `Resource Manager`
Resources exist at runtime. They are managed by the resource manager. 
The resource manager is responsible for loading, unloading, and updating resources.

---
